impossible. It will never happen. Not in a million years. Have you ever thought
that way about someone coming into the truth? Well, that might be our limited view
of a person. But how does Jehovah view him or her? And what is his view of all
humans, even faithless ones? Notice his limitless view at 1 Timothy chapter 2
in verse 4. There it says, whose will is that all sorts of people should be saved
and come to an accurate knowledge of truth. So what is Jehovah's desire? It's his
will that all hear the message and be allowed to make changes and be saved. Now to
us that might be impossible, but we know with God all things are possible. He
can stir the heart and he can motivate anyone. While it's true that faith is not
the possession of all people, it is a possession of millions around the world and
it can be for those who choose to acquire it. We know the Bible contains many
examples of men and women who at one time lacked faith, but later acquired it.
And the same is true today. It's not impossible. This symposium will help us
to remember this fact. Faithless people can acquire faith if we have Jehovah's
view and allow all sorts of people to hear God's word and make adjustments. We
will discuss four groups of people in this symposium, the Ninevites, Jesus
fleshly brothers, prominent ones, and non-religious people. And in each one of
these symposium talks, we'll consider what help former unbelievers to acquire
faith and what we can learn. First, let's consider the example of the Ninevites.
As you recall, they are a Syrians or were a Syrians who lived in the capital
city of Ninevah and was founded by Nimrod. It was referred to as the city of
bloodshed. With that history and backdrop, we can imagine what the people were
like. They worshiped gods of war. War was their religion. Yes, they were aggressive,
they were violent people, and they took pleasure in sadistically torturing
their captives. Well, their reputation was known by all the surrounding nations
including God's people. So that's why Jehovah sent his prophet Jonah to go
there and proclaim their destruction. As we noticed this first video, imagine how
Jonah must have felt going into Ninevah, going through the streets and
observing the people of Ninevah, contemplating his warning message. How did
Jonah view his assignment? Well, at this time he did not have Jehovah's view. He
was afraid of the Ninevites, maybe what they thought of him or what they would
do once they heard his message. Well, Jonah was human. He had feelings like ours.
A human tendency is to judge people on what we see or what we hear about them. If
you were alive then and Jehovah gave you this assignment instead of Jonah, how
might you have reacted? Would you have thought about the Ninevites and their
cruelty and their wickedness and say, they can change or would you feel it's
impossible? It'll never happen. Not in a million years. Well, that's how Jonah
felt. But Jehovah corrected his view of his assignment as well as the people.
And he took that message and that counsel from Jehovah to heart and he
proclaimed the message to the people of Ninevah. He certainly got the Ninevites
attention, but he might have thought to himself, well, this is the end for me.
But how did they respond? Notice Jonah chapter 3 and verse 5. It says, and the men
of Ninevah put faith in God. So this surprise even Jonah himself, the king made
a proclamation for all the people what they should do to demonstrate their faith.
Notice verse 8 says, let them be covered with sackcloth, both man and beast, and let
them call out earnestly to God and turn from their evil ways and from the
violence they practice. Who knows whether the true God may reconsider what he
intends to do and turn from his burning anger so that we may not perish? What
helped the Ninevites to change to acquire faith? It was a direct result of
Jonah accomplishing his assignment, boldly preaching God's message. They were
given the opportunity to change and to Jonah's surprise, they did. But Jonah had
to make changes too. He had to take his limited view of his assignment and the
people and change it to the limitless view that Jehovah had, that people can
change and Jehovah can stir their hearts. And Jonah had to look at himself and
re-look at his assignment. He was not the judge, he was not the jury, he was a
messenger. Having Jehovah's view changes everything. How we view others, how we
view ourselves, how we view our assignments today. We are ministers who have a
message. We're not the judges. Well, Jehovah is the judge and how did he judge
the Ninevites worthy of being saved and have his mercy? Notice, Jonah chapter
three and they're in verse 10. It says, when the true God saw what they did and
how they had turned back from their evil ways, he reconsidered the calamity that
he said he would bring on them and he did not bring it. In the following video
notice the changes that the Ninevites made and how they benefited. Are you Jonah?
I am. Thank you. Well, the Ninevites certainly changed from the first video
that we watched. Changes they made on the inside allowed them to make changes
on the outside, how they viewed their fellow Ninevites and how they treated them.
Even their dispositions changed from gloomy unhappy faces to smiling, happy
ones. They were appreciative of Jonah's warning message as well as Jehovah's
mercy. What's the lesson for us? The same lesson that Jonah learned. We need to
show compassion as Jehovah does. This means more than just noticing that someone
needs help, but taking the time and having the desire to try to relieve that
pain helped them. How can we imitate Jehovah's compassion today? It's by putting
compassion into action and we do this by our preaching and we do this to all
persons giving them an opportunity to change and not be judgmental by viewing
them as potential sheep as our future brother or sister. Like the Ninevites,
many today are taught wrong beliefs and attitudes from childhood and it may be
difficult to change but not impossible. What can help them change?
Hebrews 412 says the word of God can help. The word of God is alive and exerts power.
Many of us are living proof of the Bible's power to change us. Before learning
the truth, some of us might have been violent, immoral, faithless. But as the Apostle Paul says,
that is what some of you were. They change back then. People are changing today with the help
of God's Word and His Holy Spirit. We can help others change. We cannot read hearts,
but we know that Jehovah can and he can stir the heart, motivate anyone.
What can we do in the meantime? We can remember to follow what Romans chapter 10 and verse 16 says,
our assignment is to be a messenger. Notice verse 16,
nevertheless, they did not all obey the good news. For Isaiah says,
Jehovah, who has put faith in the thing heard from us? So faith follows the thing heard.
In turn, what is heard is through the word about Christ. Faith follows the things heard.
What motivated the Ninevice to change, it was only after they heard Jonas' warning message.
It is our hope and prayer that many will put faith in God because of the warning message that we give.
So may we be like Jonah, be compassionate, but bold, and preaching the good news to all.
And who knows, faith may follow the things heard. Remember, it is possible.
Faithless people can acquire faith.
Brother Mark Sanderson, a member of the governing body, will now consider the next part of this
symposium. Remember, faithless people can acquire faith, Jesus, fleshly brothers.